{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2510;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\lang9\b\f0\fs28 Barriers of MMC\b0\fs22\par
Modern methods of construction (MMCs) offer many benefits, but their uptake is low.Their contribution to the construction industry is also low. Cost related issues are the most important barriers to implementing MMCs\par
\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj The MMC market will need to convince the industry and the wider public that past failures inprefabrication are a thing of the past, but even then, preconceptions may have to be overcome\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Innovation brings with it risk traditional = tried and tested = may possibly be considered a safer bet\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Mortgageability and insurability may be stumbling blocks in the short term at least\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Will MMC homes with their innovative materials prove more difficult to market?\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Innovative designs associated with new materials may raise design issues within existing towns and villages, ignore the local vernacular and find it more difficult to secure planning consent \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}There may be the danger of a circular argument \endash  the benefits of MMC may not be fully maximised until high production volumes are achieved, but there may be a reluctance to invest in high volume production until the benefits can be demonstrated\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.hertfordshirelep.com/media/5633/mmc_an-overview.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.hertfordshirelep.com/media/5633/mmc_an-overview.pdf}}}\f0\fs22\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}https://ascelibrary.org/doi/pdf/10.1061/%28ASCE%29ME.1943-5479.0000410"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://ascelibrary.org/doi/pdf/10.1061/%28ASCE%29ME.1943-5479.0000410}}}\f0\fs22 - Paper on barriers of MMC.\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj It is no surprise that the smaller firms in the sample were inexperienced with MMC, given that MMC is too expensive and complex for smaller projects. The responses from smaller firms did not represent or measure \ldblquote actual\rdblquote  barriers and it would have been better if the barriers had been separated as \ldblquote perceived\rdblquote  or \ldblquote spurious.\rdblquote\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}MMC is inappropriate for small-scale projects because of (1) high overhead costs and (2) high costs per  unit when module quantities are low\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d7de/2b7518554ae5eef659877c43fa4558b62b3d.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d7de/2b7518554ae5eef659877c43fa4558b62b3d.pdf}}}\f0\fs22 - MMC a evolution or revolution?\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Modern Methods of Construction (MMC) are defined as those which provide an efficient product management process to provide more products of better quality in less time. It has been defined in various ways: pre-fabrication, off-site production and off-site manufacturing (OSM). But while all OSM is MMC not all MMC is OSM. It can be classified in various ways and may involve key services (e.g.) plumbing, key items (e.g. foundations) inner shell (walls etc), external walls, or any combination of these elements. It can also be classified by material (timber, steel, concrete and masonry).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}However, a number of barriers will need to be overcome if the application of MMC is to become prevalent. In terms of consumer confidence, a patchy track record dating back to the 1960s of \lquote pre-fab\rquote  and system-build approaches will need to be overcome. Whilst such terms are perceived negatively, confidence exists across the regeneration sector that modern day consumers are more concerned with good design, aesthetics and character than construction methods. Whilst there is optimism on this front, there exists a more substantial barrier in the form of mortgage lenders and insurers as both sectors remain sceptical about the long-term viability of MMC. Whilst progress is being achieved in this respect, it is lagging behind \endash  and hence hindering \endash  the more innovative and instinctive approach of the development industry.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}At present, the narrative to be attached to modern methods of construction is one of potential. Critical mass needs to be achieved in terms of generating economies of scale. In the meantime, much remains to be learned in terms of capitalising on the benefits they can offer. There are significant environmental benefits that could be derived in terms of energy efficiency and waste reduction. Other problems such, as soundproofing and thermal performance, must also be addressed. Furthermore, greater thought is required as to the types of projects for which MMC represent a solution. For example, this papers suggests that MMC are of greater relevance to the provision of affordable housing for rent, in terms of reducing disruption and overcoming waiting-lists, as opposed to private housing, where the advantages of rapid construction are less useful because other factors determine the rate of transactions in the market. However, there are areas where other advantages of MMC (such as environmental performance) will drive their application. Illustrating this, in the health and education sectors, where standardised products and the need for uniformly high performance standards are requisites, the employment of MMC is wholly appropriate.\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Key Issues\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\fs22\bullet    \b0 Modern methods of construction should not be considered an all-answering remedy for the shortage of skills in the construction industry. Demand will remain for traditional, on-site construction skills, and, in time, the need for more, new skills will become apparent. Although MMC can reduce the pressure on traditional skills-sets, they cannot completely replace the need for traditionally-skilled tradesmen. Both the construction industry and government must invest in training new workers as a matter of urgency. There is little value in promoting innovative methods of construction if the industry is still unable to recruit staff that are suitably well trained to implement them.\b\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 1\fs22 . \fs28 Housing Quality \fs22 :\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b0 Modern methods of construction offer the opportunity to provide high quality homes. The public perception of the quality of new-build homes is mixed. They are often regarded as inferior to older, Victorian-age homes. It seems this problem of perception is not a consequence of a failure in the design of new-build homes as, due to building regulations and government requirements\b\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}  \b0 In order to avoid quality issues and potential public relations problems, more research must be undertaken as regards to the performance of new methods and materials in order to identify any potential defects. This testing should be accompanied by validation and regulation. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Modern methods of construction, if implemented correctly, offer the chance to significantly increase the quality and desirability of new homes. MMC also have advantages in terms of innovation in the design process. This will be a useful incentive for those seeking new homes and could provide house-builders with competitive advantages.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}A note of caution should be sounded regarding the ability of modern methods of construction to provide better quality homes. There are many different materials that can be used in the MMC process and the suitability of each must be intensively scrutinised before a decision is made on which approach to use\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\fs28 Overcoming the Barriers\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj 1. Cost :\fs22   \b0 Currently the industry is in a somewhat stymied situation. In order to reduce the cost of manufacture there needs to be increased take up of modern methods of construction within regeneration. However, for constructors to fully utilise MMC, costs need to be reduced. This is where the incentives and policies being pioneered by the Housing Corporation and English Partnerships are so important in creating more sizeable markets for modern methods of construction.\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Standardisation of components provides an opportunity for the reduction of costs. However, although uniformity of base components is to be encouraged, the production of homogeneous structures is to be discouraged as design variations must be possible to avoid monotony in the urban landscape. Modern methods of construction should not be used to create uniform developments at low cost. Rather, MMC should offer the opportunity to create innovative low-cost, well-designed homes.\b\par
\b0{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}uncertainties over the profitability of MMC is the long-term cost of production and development.  Another concern relates to the long-term costs of maintaining products incorporating MMC .\b\par
\b0{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Modern methods of construction often appear more expensive than traditional methods due to the way in which they are compared. MMC can reduce significantly whole-life costs, especially if critical mass is achieved and mass production becomes prevalent. Although initial costs may prove high, future costs could be significantly reduced if large numbers of units are completed. At present many projects are judged only on initial start up costs. If long-term costs were taken into consideration the attractiveness of MMC as a production method of choice would be improved. \b\par
\b0{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Labour costs could be reduced through the use of MMC \b\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28 2. Demand\fs22  : \b0 Although there are many benefits associated with modern methods of construction, currently demand is held back by concerns over profitability. The sector is not yet mature enough to offer large cost savings through economies of scale and the use of mass production. The potential is evident and if the industry is able to develop, costswill be significantly reduced.\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj The general public, as consumers, should be made aware of the benefits of modern methods of construction. The most marketable advantages of MMC, such as better and more innovative design, should be articulated by the industry.  The industry should not be defensive about the product. Although the failures of innovative methods of construction in the past are still of concern to some members of the public, the majority of homeowners are increasingly concerned with quality, design and cost. \b\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Marketing will be an important tool in increasing public demand and acceptance of MMC.\b\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b0 Currently demand is held back by concerns over profitability. The sector is not yet mature enough to offer large cost savings through economies of scale and the use of mass production. The potential is evident and if the industry is able todevelop, costs will be significantly reduced\b\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\fs28 3.Design Considerations : \b0\fs22 Design quality should not suffer in buildings produced using MMC. MMC do provide potential for better quality design and innovation withinhouse building. Factory construction can provide a greater level of detail if developers are willing to innovate. Traditional construction consists of materials being delivered and fitted by on-site workers, whereas in a factory setting they are ordered pre-cut to an exact size. In addition, in factories Computer Aided Design can be utilised to create more sophisticated designs\par
\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li1080\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Innovative design can result in space being used more efficiently when developing at high density. For example, greater use can be made of preformed basements and loft space to create extra living space within a similar or smaller footprint. Such homes delivered in high density developments can provide a better quality living environment.\par
\pard\li360\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b\fs28{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.arcom.ac.uk/-docs/proceedings/ar2009-0251-0260_Kempton.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 http://www.arcom.ac.uk/-docs/proceedings/ar2009-0251-0260_Kempton.pdf}}}\f0\fs28\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ukessays.com/essays/construction/drivers-and-barriers-of-modern-methods.php"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.ukessays.com/essays/construction/drivers-and-barriers-of-modern-methods.php}}}\f0\fs28\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.rics.org/globalassets/rics-website/media/news/news--opinion/modern-methods-of-construction-paper-rics.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.rics.org/globalassets/rics-website/media/news/news--opinion/modern-methods-of-construction-paper-rics.pdf}}}\f0\fs28\par
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.hertfordshirelep.com/media/5633/mmc_an-overview.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul\cf1 https://www.hertfordshirelep.com/media/5633/mmc_an-overview.pdf}}}\b0\f0\fs22\par
}
 